---
layout: default
title: 2024-06-05 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting
---
# 2024-06-05 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting

## Attending
Jonathan Gregory, Ethan Davis, Andrew Barna, Sadie Bartholomew, Francesca Eggleton, David Hassell, Gui Castelao, Alison Pamment, Antonio S. Cofiño

## Agenda/Notes

* Schedule next meeting of the info-mgmt team
    * 3 Sept at 15:00 UTC
* Review [notes](2024-03-11-meeting.md) from last meeting (11 March), for agenda items for this meeting
* Link Checker: Discussion #[320](https://github.com/orgs/cf-convention/discussions/320) “Broken web links”
    * \[Antonio\]: Re-open issue on error?
    * \[Antonio\]: After error, report “no-error” status and close issue automatically?
        * Jonathan suggests only open on error, close by hand.
        * **Decision**: Open automatically, close manually.
    * \[Antonio\]: Long action: Check and take actions on excluded paths and/or links
        * **Decision**: Repost broken links that we know that they are definitely broken/missing
* Should CF info-mgmt team meetings be open and advertised in CF Discussion?
    * Ask for input on agenda items in the announcement?
    * Publish Agenda/Notes or minutes?
        * Stick with GDocs? On CF website? On CF GitHub Wiki?
    * Discuss:
        * Alison: advertise agenda ahead of time, open if interested.
        * David: discussed in conventions meeting \- announce and invite if interested (email for meeting link)
        * Gui: agree, maybe not expressly invite unless requested, just to not slow things down too much.
        * Andrew: are issues opened on all topics we discuss.
        * Alison: Do we need process to track issues that should be discussed here.
        * Sadie: Could we use a label(s) to indicate
        * David: voting should be team members only
        * **Decision**: advertise agenda ahead of time. (issue/discuss/wiki?). Discussion “announce” tag.
            * Allow external participants if requested.
* Review new DOIs for CF Conventions document and the DOI metadata
    * **Decision**: Build/release process should add PDF (and HTML ?) files to GitHub Release
    * Metadata
    * **Action**: Add DOI to CITATION.CFF
    * **Action**: Review .zenodo.json, compare to DOI metadata

## Hold for next meeting

* CF Conventions document build draft/release process
    * Draft versions need to be clarified that “CF-\<version\>-draft” is not valid in ‘Conventions’ attribute (See Discussion \#[321](https://github.com/orgs/cf-convention/discussions/321))
* Author/contributor lists
    * Goal: One machine-readable copy used to auto-generate lists in docs
