---
layout: default
title: 2024-09-03 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting
---
# 2024-09-03 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting

## Attendees
Andrew Barna, Lars Bärring, Guilherme Castelao, Antonio S. Cofiño, Ethan Davis, Francesca Eggleton, Ellie Fisher, Jonathan Gregory, Daniel Lee, Alison Pamment

## Agenda/Notes

* Schedule next meeting of the info-mgmt team
    * 3rd Dec at 15:00 UTC
* CF Workshop hackathon planning
* GH Permissions: CF org members, teams, permissions, external collaborators
    * **Decisions:**
        * \[**Done**\] Delete ‘conventions’ and ‘Web’ teams
        * \[**Done**\] Remove a few no longer active members from organization
        * Review content and make ‘cf-training’ repo public. Consider folding into web site.
        * \[**Done**\] Remove webtest1 repo
        * \[**Done**\] Downgrade info-mgmt to ‘maintenance’ from ‘admin’
        * \[**Done**\] Give committees and panel Write permission
        * \[**Done**\] Owners: good with the current three (Ethan, David, Daniel)
        * \[**Done**\] Change ‘Contributor’ team name to “Moderator’
    * Collaborator role:
        * Moderator role (for issues) needs permissions to modify/edit the initial post.
        *
* CF Conventions document build draft/release process
    * Draft versions need to be clarified that “CF-\<version\>-draft” is not valid in ‘Conventions’ attribute (See Discussion \#[321](https://github.com/orgs/cf-convention/discussions/321))
    * Agreement reached, we think. Issue and PR needed
* Author/contributor lists
    * Goal: One machine-readable copy used to auto-generate lists in docs
    * Possible Hackathon topic?
* The following three open conventions issues are all technical matters, and they have stalled.
  Would anyone volunteer to adopt any of them?
  (Sadie opened the first two, but that doesn't oblige her to complete them\!)
    * Color blindness accessibility of document figures & tables (Issue #[404](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/404))
    * Appendix F: 14 geotiff.maptools.org domain links redirecting (Issue #[479](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/479))
    * Formatting of local links in text; Lists of Figures, Tables and Examples (Issue #[499](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/499))
* At its meeting today, the committee thought it would be useful to have some very short and simple instructions about how to "check and merge a PR", if requested to do so.
  The "check" part means casting your eye over it, just to see that it changes the files in reasonable ways, doesn't delete any files unexpectedly or cause other accidental damage.
  It doesn't mean checking the content beyond that, because we don't merge until the content has been agreed in detail. 
  There are some committee members who might do this when requested, but don't know how.
* Issue #[151](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/151) on moderation of proposals contains some agreement that it would be a good idea for moderators of proposals to be able to update the initial posting in an issue, to add links to summaries or key points in the discussion.
  To update someone else's post requires write permission to the repo, which not everyone has.
  Would it be reasonable and practical to give write permission to the conventions repo to anyone who volunteers as a moderator?
