---
layout: default
title: 2024-03-11 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting
---
# 2024-03-11 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting

## Attendees
Andrew Barna, Sadie Bartholomew, Antonio S. Cofiño, Francesca Eggleton, Ellie Fisher, David Hassell, Rosalyn Hatcher, Alison Pamment, Daniel Lee, Jonathan Gregory

## Agenda/Notes

* Decide on how often to hold regular meetings of the info-mgmt team
    * Quarterly
* Schedule next meeting of the info-mgmt team
    * Wednesday 5 June 2024 at 15:00 UTC
* How to communicate as team? emails, other?
    * GH Team Discussions were sunset (see [GH blog post](https://github.blog/changelog/2023-02-08-sunset-notice-team-discussions/) announcement)
    * Email
* Initial (test) migration to GH Discussions instead of CF Discuss issues
    * See issue #[440](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/440) and Gov Panel notes from Dec 2023 mtg
    * Test setup announcement by Jonathan (see Issue #[290](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/290) and Discussion #[289](https://github.com/orgs/cf-convention/discussions/289)).
    * Fran - tested GH Discussions - would like to demonstrate some potential problems
    * Changes to website and templates for new issues
    * Can discussions be made into issues in other repos? Need to test.
    * Do we even want to create issue from discussion topic?
        * Or summarize agreed issue in new Issue.
    * See “Reference in new issue” option in Discussion comment menu option
    * Actions:
        * All: More testing
        * Jonathan: summarize this discussion in Discussion forum
* New (renamed) CF Standard Names repo
    * Discuss new repo (transfer SN Issues) vs renaming discuss (transfer non SN into Discussions)
    * Two pieces:
        * Documents, etc. that want to store/track in git
        * Discussion
    * Alison: no need to move standard name docs out of website repo
    * Ethan: DOIs might be easier; website space issues
    * Alison: How to re-architect how standard names are handled in GH?

## Hold for next meeting

* Build/release process
    * Can we control the files archived during a release?
        * For instance, PDF and HTML.zip instead of .zip of repo contents?
* Suppress output from link checker if there are no problems to report

## Hold for separate (or next) meeting

* DOI and License
    * Add license information to header/footer of web pages (issue \#?)
    * Add license information to CF Conventions docs, HTML and PDF (issue \#?)
* Author/contributor lists
    * Goal: One machine readable copy used to auto-generate lists in docs
