---
layout: default
title: 2025-03-04 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting
---
# 2025-03-04 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting

## Attendees
Ethan Davis, Antonio S. Cofiño, Jonathan Gregory, Francesca Eggleton, David Hassell, Sadie Bartholomew, Alison Pamment, Guilherme Castelao, Ellie Fisher

###  Agenda/Notes

* Schedule next meeting
    * 5 June 2025 at 15:00 UTC (9am MT)
* Website needs info on how to cite CF
    * Find and ping current issue ***(David to do)***
    * Add DOI links to list of CF versions
    * Add current DOI/citation to front page
* Vocab repo structure - next step is discussion between Andrew, Fran, Ellie and Alison  
  Andrew may be out of office until June, Alison to arrange meeting \[“I'll be at sea (or traveling to/from ports) from starting 2025 March 5 to 2025 May 5.” Andrew\]
* Automate author/contrib list from one source (currently three web lists of different kinds of contributor, cff files and in the CF convention document)
    * There is already an ISSUE and a PR solving it:
        * https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/579
        * https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/pull/580
* Ethan will move meeting notes/minutes into website
