---
layout: default
title: 2025-09-11 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting
---
# 2025-09-11 CF Information Management and Support Team meeting

## Attending
Andrew Barna, Jonathan Gregory, Ethan Davis, Fran Eggleton, Ellie Fisher, David Hassell, Alison Pamment, Gui Castelao

## Agenda/Notes

* Schedule next meeting
    * 4 Dec at 9am US/Mtn (16:00 UTC)
* Update/discussion on re-org of standard names (all vocabularies) repository
    * Current page (test): [https://cfconventions.org/vocabularies/](https://cfconventions.org/vocabularies/)
    * Unfortunately, XSLT being removed from browsers for security and aging technology reasons.
    * Implement a build process \- issue \# [276](https://github.com/cf-convention/vocabularies/issues/276)
* How to implement groups of equivalent standard names for sea and inland water: Vocab issue #[25](https://github.com/cf-convention/vocabularies/issues/25)
    * We lack a semantically clear way of expressing this in the current standard name XML, aliases currently have an implicit meaning of "deprecated".
    * Full adoption of NVS as canonical CF standard name source, specifically its owl:sameAs mapping, would allow non "deprecated" equivalent names to exist simultaneously with a clear semantic relationship.
        * How to map this relationship back into the CF Standard Name XML would still remain if the XML continues to be desired.
        * A conversation would need to be had with NVS about this (Gwen)
    * The discussion, however, was dominated by debate over the wisdom of this change.
* Committee updates at the [CF workshop](https://cfconventions.org/Meetings/2025-Workshop.html) (Tuesday 23rd September 15:10 UTC)
    * Overview of governance structure
    * Updates from each committee/panel (Gov, committees, Info-mgmt team)
        * Committees:
        * Info-mgmt: Zenodo for DOIs and Vocab Re-org
        * Andrew to write a slide
