---
layout: default
title: 2020 CF Workshop
---

# 2020 CF Workshop

The 2020 CF Workshop took place virtually on 9-11 June 2020.  The
meeting ran for 3 hours on each day, 16:00 to 19:00 UTC, and was
followed by a short purely social time for those who could and wanted
to stay on.

The workshop had three main themes: Goverance, Tools, and Current
Enhancement Proposals.

The goverance sesssions (3.5 hours) covered standard names, recent
changes to goverance procedures and the CF committees, the use of
GitHub as the primary repository for CF and a review of recent and
upcoming changes to the conventions.

The tools session (1 hour) contained three demonstrations of generic
tools that could be useful to the CF community - two CF checkers and a
reference implementation of the CF data model. This was a new addition
to the annual meeting, and one that will surely be repeated.

The remining time (4.75 hours) was devoted to eight breakout
discussions, with four occuring in parallel on each of two days. Seven
of the sessions focussed on furthering the progress of an open
enhancement in the GithUb issue tracker, with the other session
devoted to a general discussion on standard names.


Thanks for their support is extended to to:
 - [University of Cantabria](https://web.unican.es/en/)
 - [IS-ENES3](https://is.enes.org/) which is funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 824084
 - [EUMETSAT](https://www.eumetsat.int/)

## Agenda

[This document provides a brief summary of each topic discussed](2020-workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf).

### Tuesday, 9 June 2020 - Governance
**16:00 UTC - Welcome and Introductions (David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* A brief introduction to CF-netCDF

**16:15 - CF Standard Names (Alison Pamment) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* Overview - What are standard names?
* Process, Creation, Tracking

**17:30 - Governance (Ethan Davis) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* Community
* Constitution, Governance Panel, and Committee(s)
* Contributors
* Process: Conventions Document and Website

**18:15 - Process Demo and Q&A (Daniel Lee) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**

**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour**
* Virtual Social Hour

### Wednesday, 10 June 2020 - Update, Road map, Tools, Current Enhancement Proposals
**16:00 UTC - Road map: CF 1.8, CF 1.9, and Onward (David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* Review of CF-1.8
* Road map for CF-1.9
* The Future

**16:30 - Software Tools and keeping up to date with CF (Kevin O'Brien, Robert Fratantonio, Rosalyn Hatcher, David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* CF Compliance Checkers
* A data model reference implementation

**17:30 - Breakouts for Current Discussion Topics**
* Four Zoom breakout rooms with Google Documents for Notes
  * **[Standard names](2020-workshop/Standard-names-discussion-notes.pdf)**
  * **Cell methods** - [Notes](2020-workshop/Cell-methods-discussion-notes.pdf) & [presentation](2020-workshop/Cell_methods__Breakout-intro.pdf)
  * **[Figure for bounds](2020-workshop/Figure-for-bounds-discussion-notes.pdf)**
  * **[Mesh or boundary variable](2020-workshop/Mesh-or-boundary-variable-discussion-notes.pdf)**

**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour**
* Virtual Social Hour

### Thursday, 11 June 2020 - Current Enhancement Proposals, Wrap-up and Conclusions
**16:00 UTC - Breakouts for Current Discussion Topics**
* Four Zoom breakout rooms with Google Documents for Notes
  * **[Metadata handling (provenance)](2020-workshop/Metadata-handling-provenance-discussion-notes.pdf)**
  * **Subsampled coordinates** - [Notes](2020-workshop/Subsampled-coordinates-discussion-notes.pdf) & [presentation](2020-workshop/Subsampled-coordinates-in-CF-netCDF.pdf)
  * **[CRS WKT](2020-workshop/CRS-WKT-discussion-notes.pdf)**
  * **[Moderation of proposals](2020-workshop/Moderation-of-proposals-discussion-notes.pdf)**

**17:30 - Report out from Breakouts [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* 5 minute summaries from each breakout topic

**18:15 - Wrap-up and Conclusions (Antonio Cofiño) [Questions/Discussion](2020-workshop/Plenary-discussion-notes.pdf)**
* Overall summary and Wrap-up
* Action Items and Decisions

**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour**
* Virtual Social Hour

## The organising committee

Jim Biard, Dave Blodgett, Kevin O'Brien, Antonio Cofiño, Ethan Davis,
David Hassell, Jessica Hausman, Aleksandar Jelenak, Daniel Lee,
Jonathan Yu
