---
layout: default
title: 2023 CF Workshop
---

# 2023 CF Workshop

The 2023 CF Workshop was a virtual meeting held on 3-5 October 2023.
The meeting ran for three hours on each day, plus an informal hour at the end of each day.
There were just over 40 registered attendees from 8 countries with 20-27 active participants online at most times during the three-day meeting.

Each day began with plenary sessions with topics including standard names, governance and process, lightning talks, and introductions to hackathon topics.
The majority of each day was spent in hackathon sessions.
The hackathon topics included:
* Using requirements key words in CF Conventions, e.g., "MUST", "SHALL", "SHOULD", "MAY" (See issue #[258](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/258))
* Can CF use netCDF enumerations to replace CF flags (See issue #[238](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/238))
* Enhancing CF to allow localizing NetCDF metadata (see issue #[244](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/244))
* Harmonizing precipitation standard names (see issue #[262](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/262))
* Adding complex numbers to CF (see issue #[204](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/204))
* Remove CF restrictions on netCDF object names (see issue #[237](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/237) and [Overview/Summary slides](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.24564295.v1))
* Conventions for dataset aggregation (see [CF Aggregation page](https://github.com/NCAS-CMS/cfa-conventions/blob/master/source/cfa.md))

The second and third days included lightning talk plenary sessions.
The lightning talk topics were:
* Metadata to Describe Lossy Compression - presented by Charlie Zender (see issue #[403](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/403))
* Temperature units in CF - presented by David Hassell
* NetCDF Enumerations - presented by Abel Aoun
* CF Training: where to find existing resources and how to request future topics - presented by Sadie Bartholomew (slides at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.24615177.v1)

## Documents

All the presentations and notes for the plenary and breakout sessions will be available in this [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1fxyG-4-9LD5zhfYA5F7zF_YqNFtJOjKI).
(Presenters, please upload your slides to the workshop folder before your presentation time to allow for backup in case of technical issues.)

The organizing committee requests that all presentations, in final form, be placed in a document repository that provides permanence for the document and a DOI (or other de-referencable PID).
Both [Figshare](https://figshare.com/) and [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/) provide these services.
Some presenters may also have access to an institutional repository that provide these services.

If you are new to this type of repository, see the Figshare "How to sign-up" [page](https://help.figshare.com/article/how-to-sign-up-to-figshare) and the "How to upload and publish your research" [page](https://help.figshare.com/article/how-to-upload-and-publish-your-research)
or the Zenodo "Quick Start" [page](https://help.zenodo.org/docs/get-started/quickstart/).

## Agenda

### Tuesday, 3 October 2023

* **15:00 UTC - Welcome and Overview of meeting structure (Alison)**
  * Discussion-heavy plenary sessions
  * Lightning Talks
  * Hackathons (time to work)

* **15:10 - Process review and discussion (Ethan)**
  * Release scheduling (David)
  * Regular committee meetings (and Info Management and Support Team meetings) (Jonathan)
  * Regular community meetings
    * Office hours / ask me anything sessions
    * Issue triage meetings
    * Hackathon meetings
  * Will all/any of this help drive forward stuck issues? 
  * Is annually a good pace for CF Workshops?

* **15:35 - Hackathon Introductions**
  * Hackathon topics and schedule ([Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MRamt7q8dZ_dSsjzLftgQkUhC9_LjPlwXgmJ6Z7Ciao/edit))

* **16:30 - Break**

* **16:40 - Hackathon sessions**
  * Hackathon topics and schedule ([Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MRamt7q8dZ_dSsjzLftgQkUhC9_LjPlwXgmJ6Z7Ciao/edit))

* **18:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour**
    * Virtual Social Hour

### Wednesday, 4 October 2023

* **15:00 UTC - Welcome, Review, Discussion (Organizing Committee)**

* **15:05 - Standard names - new developments, volunteers (Alison)**

* **15:35 - Lightning Talks (MC: Organizing Committee)**
  * Topics and schedule for Lightning Talk ([Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RnQ6WL4LKTWvAt7A9wb6J5qfUZ66nAxyezGdYhOhEls/edit)) 

* **16:30 - Break**

* **16:40 - Hackathon sessions**
  * Hackathon topics and schedule ([Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MRamt7q8dZ_dSsjzLftgQkUhC9_LjPlwXgmJ6Z7Ciao/edit))

* **18:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour**
  * Virtual Social Hour

### Thursday, 5 October 2023

* **15:00 UTC - Welcome, Review, Discussion (Organizing Committee)**

* **15:15 - Plenary**
  * Discussion of Training
  * Other topics TBD

* **15:15 - Report out from Hackathon sessions**
  * Hackathon topics and schedule ([Google Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MRamt7q8dZ_dSsjzLftgQkUhC9_LjPlwXgmJ6Z7Ciao/edit))

* **16:00 - Lightning Talks (MC: Organizing Committee)**

* **16:45 - Break**

* **17:00 - Summary / Report out (TBD)**

* **18:00 - Adjourn**

## CF Code of Conduct
Participants should review the [CF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## The organising committee
* Alison Pamment
* Antonio S. Cofiño
* Charlie Zender
* Daniel Lee
* David Hassell
* Ethan Davis
* Guilherme Castelao
* Kevin O'Brien
* Lars Bärring
* Sadie Bartholomew
