---
layout: default
title: 2024 CF Workshop
---

# 2024 CF Workshop

The 2024 CF workshop will be held at SMHI, Norrköping, Sweden (and online) from Tuesday 17th to Friday 20th September 2024.
Travel information and a link to the registration form is available on the [SMHI CF Workshop page](https://www.smhi.se/en/research/research-departments/climate-research-at-the-rossby-centre/cf-community-workshop-2024-1.207332). 

The meeting will be divided into two parts, and participants may choose to attend the first two days of the programme, the last two days, or the whole meeting, according to their own interests and availability:

 - **Part 1 (17-18 September 2024): Engaging the cross-domain CF community to gather user needs and develop a high-level CF roadmap.**
 - **Part 2 (19-20 September 2024): Detailed CF development including hackathon sessions.**

The plan for Part 1 of the workshop is to invite speakers from a broad range of CF users and potential users, for example, representatives of data producers and data archives in the earth system sciences, the health and biological research communities.

The aim is to maximise the usefulness of CF to a wide range of communities, encourage others to join and contribute to the CF community effort, and enhance interoperability with other widely used standards.
The desired outcome is a publication of the proceedings, including a roadmap for development of the CF conventions and vocabularies over the next 1 to 5 years.

Part 2 will follow the familiar format of our usual annual meeting.

**If you are interested in helping to set the meeting agenda, please [comment on this issue][ISSUE], or even join the organising committee (there's still room for more help!)**

## Documents

All the presentations and notes for the plenary and breakout sessions will be available in this [Google Drive folder]() (Not yet available).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Preliminary Agenda

In the first part each session will begin with 1-2 short (10 - 15 min each) keynote presentations to set the scene for the conversation. In addition, there may be 1-2 brief "lightning talks" (max 5 min each) to highlight a particular perspective relevant to the conversation.

For the second part the overall aim is to have a dynamic and flexible agenda that includes a mixture of breakout group discussions and hands-on hackathons. There will be an introductory session to give an overview of outstanding issues where hackathon conveners should be prepared to give a brief introduction of each hackathon theme. 
 

<table border="1px" id="preliminary-agenda">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>&emsp;Time&emsp;</th>
      <th>&emsp;Session&emsp;</th>
      <th>&emsp;Speakers&emsp;</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><br/>&emsp;CEST (UTC+2)&emsp;</td>
      <td><br/>&emsp;<strong><em>Tuesday, 17 September</em></strong>&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;&ensp;8:00 - &ensp;9:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Registration&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;&ensp;9:30 - 10:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Opening session&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Lars Bärring: <em>Welcome, practicalities, format/structure/expectations of meeting</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;David Hassell: <em>Setting the scene &ndash; overview of CF</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;10:30 - 11:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Break&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;11:00 - 12:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Vocabularies&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
          &emsp;Chair: Alison Pamment&emsp;<br/>
          &emsp;<em>Keynote: Gwen Moncoiffe: CF Standard Names as a global semantic resource</em>&emsp;<br/>
          &emsp;<em>Lightning talk: Liqing Jiang: Vocabulary needs of the ocean carbon and acidification community</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;12:00 - 13:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Units&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Alison Pamment&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Stuart Chalk (virtual): Digital Units of Measurement: The Digital SI and Interoperable Units</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;13:00 - 14:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Lunch&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;14:00 - 15:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Uncertainty&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Antonio Cofiño&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Charlotte Pascoe (virtual): Communicating (and understanding) uncertainty through the value chain</em>&emsp;<br/> 
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: David Huard (virtual): Metadata Pipelines in IPCC Assessment Reports</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;15:30 - 16:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Break&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;16:00 - 17:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Metadata for describing&emsp;<br/>&emsp;statistical processing&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Lars Bärring&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Christian Pagé: Metadata Challenges to properly address provenance in climate indices</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: José Manuel Gutiérrez Llorente: Title TBD</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <br/>&emsp;CEST (UTC+2)&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        <br/>&emsp;<strong><em>Wednesday, 18 September&emsp;</em></strong>&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;&ensp;9:00 - 10:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Metadata requirements for&emsp;<br/>&emsp;new technologies&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Daniel Lee&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Michael Schick: Title TBD</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Lightning talk: Ag Stephens: Teaching Large Language Models to speak CF-NetCDF</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;10:30 - 11:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Break&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;11:00 - 12:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Interoperability and&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;cross format issues&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Ethan Davis&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Sebastién Villaume: Mapping between GRIB and CF-netCDF and ECMWF software development plans</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Martina Stockhause: CF in the context of developments in the Research Data Alliance (RDA): RDA recommendations and CF opportunities</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Lightning talk: Guillermo Tesoro Calvo: NetCDF-Schema: A general schema for defining and validating netCDF products</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;12:30 - 14:00&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Lunch&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        &emsp;14:00 - 15:30&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Cross-domain challenges&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;and opportunities&emsp;
      </td>
      <td>
        &emsp;Chair: Ellie Fisher&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Luke Marsden: CF from the perspective of new discipline</em>&emsp;<br/>
        &emsp;<em>Keynote: Martin Juckes: Challenges in the Expanding Scope of the CMIP Data Request</em>&emsp;
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;15:30 - 16:00&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Break&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;16:00 - 17:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Synthesis session&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Chair: David Hassell&emsp;<br/>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;<em>End of first part</em>&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><br/>&emsp;CEST (UTC+2)&emsp;</td>
      <td><br/>&emsp;<strong><em>Thursday, 19 September</em></strong>&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;&ensp;9:00 - 10:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Overview of outstanding issues and&emsp;<br/>&emsp;introduction to hackathon sessions&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;<br/>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;10:30 - 11:00&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Break&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;11:00 - 12:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Hackathon sessions&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;<em></em>&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;12:30 - 14:00&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Lunch&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;14:00 - 17:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Hackathon sessions&emsp;<br/>&emsp;including break&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;<em></em>&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><br/>&emsp;CEST (UTC+2)&emsp;</td>
      <td><br/>&emsp;<strong><em>Friday, 20 September</em></strong>&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;&ensp;9:00 - 12:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Hackathon sessions<br/>&emsp;including break&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;<em></em>&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;12:30 - 14:00&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Lunch&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;14:00 - 15:00&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Hackathon wrap-up&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&emsp;15:00 - 15:30&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;Workshop wrap-up&emsp;</td>
      <td>&emsp;&emsp;</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### About the presenters (part 1):

(In order of appearance)
* Gwen Moncoiffé: Senior Marine Data Manager and NERC Vocabulary Server Team Co-Lead,	BODC, National Oceanography Centre, Liverpool, UK
* Liqing Jiang: Associate Research Scientist, NOAA Cooperative Institute for Satellite Earth System Studies (CISESS), USA
* Stuart Chalk: Professor of Chemical Informatics, University of North Florida, USA, and Member CODATA Task Group on Digital Representation of Units of Measurement (DRUM)
* Charlotte Pascoe: Co-Lead CEDA Atmospheric Science, Centre for Environmental Data Analysis (CEDA), UK
* David Huard: Research and Innovation Support Specialist, Ouranos, Quebec, Canada, and IPCC TG-Data co-lead
* Christian Pagé: Research Engineer,	CERFACS, Toulouse, France
* José Manuel Gutiérrez Llorente: Professor of Physics, University of Cantabria, Spain, and IPCC TG-Data Member and IPCC Atlas Lead
* Michael Schick: Principal Engineer, EUMETSAT
* Ag Stephens: Head of Partnerships,	Centre for Environmental Data Analysis (CEDA), UK
* Sebastién Villaume: Senior Data Scientist, ECMWF
* Martina Stockhause: IPCC DDC Manager, German Climate Computing Center (DKRZ), Germany
* Guillermo Tesoro Calvo: Technical Manager, CS Communication & Systèmes, France
* Luke Marsden: Data Manager, Norwegian Meteorological Institute & University Centre in Svalbard, Norway
* Martin Juckes: NCAS Senior Research Scientist in Climate Data,	University of Oxford & Centre for Environmental Data Analysis (CEDA), UK

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## CF Code of Conduct
Participants should review the [CF Code of Conduct][CoC].

## The organising committee
* Alison Pamment
* Daniel Lee
* David Hassell
* Ellie Fisher
* Ethan Davis
* Kevin O'Brien
* Lars Bärring

[ISSUE]: https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/279
[CoC]: https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
