# 2020-05-12 CF Governance Panel meeting 

## Attendees
Karl, Bryan, Daniel, Jonathan, Ethan

## Agenda
* Role and membership of the CF Governance Panel
  * Criteria for membership: Contributors or funding
  * Broad representation across domains?
* Committee membership
  * Retirement
  * Nominations
  * Chair
* Transparency of panel and committee member selection
* Other Governance document issues?
* ~~CF Extensions (?)~~
  * ~~UGRID/SGRID~~
* ~~CF Outreach~~
  * ~~WMO~~
  * ~~ESIP, AGU, EGU, OGC~~
  * ~~CF Logo~~

## Discussion
Role and membership of the CF Governance Panel
* Community representation, not necessarily technical
* (Daniel) CF evangelist
* (Bryan) evangelist more a role for management than governance
* (Jonathan, Daniel) Members should understand needs of the community, stewardship, and promoting CF
* Text from Appendix 2 of [Gov white paper](http://cfconventions.org/Data/cf-documents/cf-governance/cf2_whitepaper_final.pdf) (constitution) was referenced
  * “Govern the development … on behalf of the user community”
  * “Responsible for the stewardship of CF”
  * “promote and help integrate the use of CF”
  * “attempt to influence developing metadata standards of WMO and other international organisations”
  * “encourage continued support of CF by benevolent organisations”
  * “explore additional funding mechanisms”
  * “The panel will appoint [committee members]” and “attempt to obtain representation of a variety of communities and a geographical spread of members”
* () Should try to expand communities: Ocean sensing, Hydrology
  * Number of members (how many before lose agility), quorum?
Committee membership
* Responsibilities. What are the advantages of membership?
* Should Gov Panel ask community for nominees for committees?
* Should ask all committee members if they are still interested in being on committee
* Role: review issues, moderate issues, ask for moderators. Chair - ask for moderators

## Check in on previous action items
???

## New Action items
Copy new action items to next meetings agenda so we can check in. 
Make sure each action item is assigned to someone or it will likely not get done.

* [x] Karl: Email committees about membership, 5-year term, step down/re-up, when joined committee, etc.
* [ ] Karl: Work with committees to select new chair (once membership settles down?).
* [ ] Ethan: Ask Ocean Sensing and Hydrology folks for suggestions of community members for the CF Gov Panel.
* [ ] Ethan/Karl: Ask community for nominations for committee membership.
