---
layout: default
title: 2021-02-10 CF Governance Panel meeting
---
# 2021-02-10 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attendees
Karl, Bryan, Jonathan, Daniel, Ethan

## Agenda
* 2021 CF Workshop
* Review [notes/actions from last meeting](http://cfconventions.org/Governance/GovPanel/2020-05-12-meeting.html), 12 May 2020
* 2021 CF Workshop - organizing committee?
* New members for CF Committees
* Thoughts on GitHub process?
  * Standard Names process seems to be going well.
  * Still some work to do on GitHub process. Progress seems to have slowed.
    * Automatic build of docs
* Community health files (all three repos): CONTRIBUTING.md, SUPPORT.md, etc.
  * Should we (committees) try to increase engagement? How?
  * GitHub now has “[Discussion](https://docs.github.com/en/discussions/quickstart)” functionality
* AOB

## Discussion
CF Workshop - organizing committee - same folks is OK, ask for volunteers on Discussion
* Ethan will ping Allison & David to invite volunteers. Daniel is also willing to participate, giving 4 potential initial members. Chair of the organising committee is TBD, and could be appointed by committee.

CF Committee membership
* Discussed possible nominations
* Also can ask for nominations?
* Ethan will ask for nominations (self nomination is fine) in new CF Discuss issue

CF Gov Panel
* Discussed possible new members
* Ethan will ask Ocean sensing and Hydrology folks
* We’ll discuss a candidate list via email and aim for one or two invitations …

GitHub process, community engagement
* Some issues are just complicated and people get worn out
* Interoperability Experiments: need real use cases
  * Who has an issue that this will solve
* Virtual Hackathons? Needs to be well organized
* Regular community virtual meeting to discuss open issues, etc.
  * Announce the intent, ask for topics

## Review previous action items
* [ ] Karl: Work with committees to select new chair (once membership settles down?).
* [ ] Ethan: Ask Ocean Sensing and Hydrology folks for suggestions of community members for the CF Gov Panel.
* [ ] Ethan/Karl: Ask community for nominations for committee membership.

## New Action items


