# 2023-09-27 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attendees
* Jonathan, Daniel, Karl, Bryan, Ethan, Fanny

## Agenda
* Schedule next meeting
* 2023 CF Workshop next week, 3-5 Oct 2023
  * Review [agenda](/Meetings/2023-Workshop.md). Thoughts? suggestions?
* CF Committee meetings (triage, etc)
* CF standard names process
* Review committee member appointments
* How to advance issues dealing with governance - changes to rules etc.
* Need to conclude work on CF DOIs
* Status of AGU CF session
* Possible items after reviewing notes from previous meetings
  * Next steps for CF Common Concepts
  * Port of cfdm (and cf-agg) to C
* AOB

## Discussion
Schedule next meeting
* DECISION: 4 Dec 2023 at 16:00 UTC

2023 CF Workshop next week, 3-5 Oct 2023
* A few TBD leads still need ironing out. BCP 14 (Andrew?), etc.
* Daniel will reach out to Andrew about BCP 14
* Ethan will reach out to GeoZarr about lightning talk

CF Committee meetings (triage, etc)
* Committee is meeting this Friday
* Have put together spreadsheet of open convention issues
* Will discuss how to decide when an issue is dormant or answered or agreed and labels

CF standard names process
* Alison will present current thinking on process during workshop next week

Review committee member appointments
* DECISION: Appoint Dave Blodgett and David Hassell to new terms on the committee.
* DECISION: Review nomination of Chris Barker and Seth McGinnis and agree to invite them both to join the committee. (Invitations accepted.) 
* Discuss process for (self-)nomination for committee membership.
  * Review relevant text from "Terms of Reference of the CF Governance Panel" ([link](constitution#terms-of-reference-of-the-cf-governance-panel)).
  * Members should have broad interest in CF (beyond single issue).
  * How do people volunteer/nominate?
    * Need to advertise the process.

How to advance issues dealing with governance - changes to rules etc.
* Not many or often
* CF Gov Panel responsibility
  * Info Management meetings: On agenda for next week's workshop

Need to conclude work on CF DOIs
* See issue #[127](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/127) and PR #[443](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/pull/443)
* Use Zenodo for general CF DOI and DOIs for each CF release
* Possibly a task for the Info Management team

Status of AGU CF session

Next steps for CF Common Concepts
* Some progress on the WMO front coming from WMO Task Teams on GRIB/BUFR and CF-netCDF

Port of cfdm (and cf-agg) to C
* CFA Aggregation conventions (rules and serialisation).
  The rules were developed by Jonathan and David, the serialisation description is here: https://github.com/NCAS-CMS/cfa-conventions (probably easier to go straight to https://github.com/NCAS-CMS/cfa-conventions/blob/master/source/cfa.md)
  There is code that creates and uses those NetCDF files.
