# 2023-12-04 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attending
* Jonathan, Bryan, Fanny, Ethan, Karl

## Agenda
* Schedule next meeting
* CF versioning: semantic versioning vs year.month or other schemes
* 2024 CF Workshop
* Discuss using of GitHub Discussion forums
* AOB

## Discussion
Schedule next meeting
* DECISION: 4 March 2024 at UTC 16:00 (Backup on 11 March at UTC 15:00)

CF versioning
* Stick with 1.x (semantic versioning), move to year.month, etc.
*  No strong opinions; weak opinion that avoiding change is good

2024 CF Workshop
* SMHI will host
* Suggestion for broader conversation around data/metadata standards
  * 2-days for broader conversation mtg and 2-days for CF Workshop
  * Two meetings could help justify travel; Proceedings?
  * GeoZarr & WMO CF-nc
  * Invite other big data centers
    * Both for CF meeting; also broader community (AGU, EGU, ESIP, etc.)
  * Good to discuss further in early January
    * meeting with some subset of Gov panel and org committee (ACTION: Ethan)
* Time frame: June is SMHI top choice, also open to other months
  * If want proceedings/papers, June is tight timeline
  * Alternate is Sept/Oct  (july/Aug busy time)

Discuss using of GitHub Discussion forums
* Set up a GitHub organisation forum (i.e. not specific to any repo, although hosted in one of them) for questions and announcements (i.e. not proposals to change documents or website), rename the discuss repo as vocabulary and move the vocab documents (standard name table etc) into it.
  This is a less radical trial introduction of a forum than proposed by @DocOtak, who suggested that everything should be raised in a forum in the first instance.
  This way, we could get some experience with it, and tidy up the use of the repos, as discussed last time.
  We could do what he suggested later, if thereâ€™s a general preference for it. (See issue #[440](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/440))
  * Replace current functions of Discuss issues except for standard names suggestions
  * Andrew suggested that all changes should start as discussions in Forum
  * ACTION: Jonathan will propose making this change

AOB
* CF 1.11 release coming up (this week, before AGU)
  * Hope to have setup to forge DOIs through Zenodo in time for CF 1.11 release
