# 2023-06-29 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attendees
* Bryan, Ethan, Karl, Jonathan, Fanny

## Agenda
* Schedule next meeting
* Should we use Figshare or Zenodo for CF Workshop presentations/posters?
* Consider suggestion on rotating CF Workshops every nine months
* Consider clarifying rule “When three weeks have passed with no contributions …”
* Discuss ways to encourage engagement on issues that elicit little response due to difficulty/complexity.
* Discuss opening standard names process to non-CEDA folks
* AGU session on CF and netCDF
* CF Workshop
* AOB

## Discussion
Schedule next CF Governance Panel meeting/call
* DECISION: Tentative 11 Sept 2023 15:00 UTC (alternate 27 Sept)
  * Final: 27 Sept 2023 at 15:00 UTC

Discuss use of Figshare or Zenodo for CF Workshop presentations/posters
* DECISION: Recommend use of Figshare, Zenodo, or institutional repository
  * Repository used should provide persistence and a DOI.

Discuss suggestion on rotating CF Workshops every nine months
* If alternating in-person and virtual, this would keep in-person under 24-months apart
* Higher frequency might be difficult to plan. Could depend on funding for meetings.
* DECISION: Discuss at workshop

Discuss the “When three weeks have passed with no contributions …” rule and clarifying that messages of agreement don't extend the 3-week period.
* DECISION: Should be something like "no further concerns raised" (all agreed)
* ACTION: Create issue and PR

Discuss ways to encourage engagement on issues that elicit little response due to difficulty/complexity.
* Hard to build momentum
* Hard without funding
* Maybe regular (quarterly?) meetings to review, encourage action, make decisions
  * Issue triage
  * Hackathon meetings (Could this contribute to higher frequency of workshops?)
  * DECISION: Discuss having regular meetings at CF Workshop.
  * ACTION: Fanny and Bryan will ask CMIP IPO about helping organize regular meetings
  * ACTION: Ethan will bring up as agenda topic for CF Workshop

Discuss opening standard names process to non-CEDA folks
* Could CEDA Editor permissions be connected to GH?
* Process (CEDA Editor) is now accessible to approved people outside CEDA.
* ACTION: Bryan and Jonathan ask CEDA about CF standard names process

AOB
* AGU session on CF and netCDF proposed
* CF Workshop organizing committee meeting regularly
