---
layout: default
title: 2025-06-12 CF Governance Panel meeting
---
# 2025-06-12 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attendees
Attending: Ethan, Jonathan, Karl, Fanny

## Agenda/Notes

* Schedule our next meeting
    * 11 Sept at 14:00 UTC
* Consider reappointing various committee members, if they agree, whose previous terms ended on 29 May viz. Philip Cameron-Smith, John Graybeal, Jonathan Gregory, Roy Lowry, Alison Pamment, Karl Taylor.
  They’re all simultaneous because five years ago we first got round to recording when people’s five-year terms begin\!
    * Karl will ask Philip
    * Ethan will ask John Graybeal
    * Jonathan will ask Roy and Alison
    * Karl and Jonathan will ask themselves
* Future membership for CF Governance Panel
    * Funding concerns
    * Global representations
    * Communication:
        * Set of slides that introduce the importance of data standards
        * Impact of data that has metadata that follows standards
* ACTION: Ethan talk to Christophe and Brianna about meeting with panel, present CMD talk (For info: [https://medium.com/@christophe.noel/motivation-for-a-geozarr-unified-eo-data-model-926dd2bec07a](https://medium.com/@christophe.noel/motivation-for-a-geozarr-unified-eo-data-model-926dd2bec07a) and the preceding pages linked to it)
    * Schedule to ensure Bryan and Daniel and David and Lars can attend.

