---
layout: default
title: 2025-12-05 CF Governance Panel meeting
---
# 2025-12-05 CF Governance Panel meeting

## Attendees
Karl, Jonathan, Ethan, Bryan

## Agenda/Notes

* Schedule our next meeting (early March?)
    * 13 March 2025 9am MT (backup 11 March)
* Update on AGU award, talk, etc.
* Update on Roadmap activities
    * Discussed three publications
        * Roadmap in ESSD (Roadmap group)
        * Proceedings in BAMS (Workshop organizing committee)
        * Retrospective in EOS (CF Governance Panel)
            * short history of CF \- include projects that use CF
            * Also future directions
            * Audience, how broad: EOS, Nature, Science Data, AGU Advances?
            * Timeline: spring/summer next year?
            * Rough outline: History, CMIP, last few years of innovation, roadmap, some figures showing growth of standard names, changes in the data model, method of working.
              Aim for something with a DOI so maybe not EOS.
* Public comment period
    * Should 3-week rule for significant changes to CF Convention (enhancements?) include broader announcements than in the relevant GH Issue, perhaps as a Discussion?
    * Suggestion: If issue/PR comes from a Discussion, that is a good location to announce the 3-week period.
    * Suggestion: Explicitly mention that an issue has started from a Discussion, subscribe to that issue to follow (or express interest on that issue will also get you all notifications.
    * Similar to when a working group is spun off, mention that decision will be made by work group. Announce and give 3-weeks. (Can’t relitigate issues already decided.)
    * CF Standard Names has 7-day wait period. Too short? Committee will discuss.
* Begin planning for 2025 CF Workshop (virtual)
    * Two part meeting? In-person meetings only? Advantages to virtual in terms of attendance by people that can’t travel.
    * ACTION: Ethan will email 2024 org committee to start discussion
* Using CF with Zarr and how this relates to GeoZarr
    * Related CF issue: \#[259](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/259) (closed)
    * Bryan: NCAS(?) has pure Python implementation of netCDF reader
